Update normalize data with notebooks (#3437)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/v2.1/notebooks/clean-data.md

    parent: Notebooks
---

Learn how to create a notebook that normalizes data.
Data normalization is the process of modifying or cleaning data to make it easier to
work with. Examples include adjusting numeric values to a uniform scale and modifying strings.

Walk through the following example to create a notebook that queries
[NOAA NDBC sample data](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/sample-data/#noaa-ndbc-data),
normalizes degree-based wind directions to cardinal directions, and then writes
the normalized data to a bucket.

{{< cloud-only >}}  
{{% cloud %}}  
**Note**: Using sample data counts towards your total InfluxDB Cloud usage.
{{% /cloud %}}  
{{< /cloud-only >}}

1.  [Create a new notebook](/influxdb/v2.1/notebooks/create-notebook/).
2.  In the **Build a Query** cell:

    1.  In the **FROM** column under **{{% caps %}}Sample{{% /caps %}}**,
        select **NOAA National Buoy Data**.

>     2.  In the next **FILTER** column, select **_measurement** from the dropdown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2.  In the next **FILTER** column, select **_measurement** from the drop-down list
```

        else if d >= 326.25 and d < 348.75 then "NNW"
        else ""

        return _cardinal
    }

    __PREVIOUS_RESULT__
        |> map(fn: (r) => ({r with
            _field: "wind_dir_cardinal",
            _value: cardinalDir(d: r._value),
        }))
        |> to(bucket: "noaa")
    ```
    {{% /cloud-only %}}

4.  {{% oss-only %}}
    
    Click {{% icon "notebook-add-cell" %}} after your **Flux Script** cell to 
    add a new cell and select **{{% caps %}}Output to Bucket{{% /caps %}}**.
    Select your **noaa** bucket from the **{{% icon "bucket" %}} Choose a bucket**
    drop-down menu. 

    {{% /oss-only %}}
    
5.  _(Optional)_ Click {{% icon "notebook-add-cell" %}} and select **Note** to
    add a cell containing notes about what this notebook does. For example, the
    cell might say, "This notebook converts decimal degree wind direction values
    to cardinal directions."
6.  {{% oss-only %}}

    Click **Preview** in the upper left to verify that your notebook runs and previews the output.
    
    {{% /oss-only %}}
6.  Click **Run** to run the notebook and write the normalized data back to the
    **noaa** bucket.

## Continuously run a notebook

> To write continuously run your notebook, normalize data, and write it to a bucket,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To write continuously, run your notebook, normalize data, and write it to a bucket,
```

Reviewer: for this particular example, think running the notebook covers normalizing data and writing to a bucket? if yes, perhaps:

To write continuously run your notebook, export the notebook as a task:

> To write continuously run your notebook, normalize data, and write it to a bucket,
> Export the notebook as a task:

Author: ```suggestion
To continuously run your notebook, export the notebook as a task:
```

    parent: Notebooks
---

Learn how to create a notebook that normalizes data.

> Data normalization is the process of modifying or cleaning data to be easier to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data normalization is the process of modifying or cleaning data to make it easier to
```

> work with. For example, adjusting numeric values to a uniform scale,
> modifying strings, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
work with. Examples include adjusting numeric values to a uniform scale and modifying strings.
```

> Walk through the following example to create a notebook that does the following:

Reviewer: to avoid double numbered steps and "the following" twice, we may want to pull lines 20-23 out of numbered steps into an intro clause?

Reviewer: Walk through the "Normalize data with a notebook" to query NOAA..., create a Flux script cell to normalize data, and write data to a bucket.

> 1.  Queries [NOAA NDBC sample data](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/sample-data/#noaa-ndbc-data)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Queries [NOAA NDBC sample data](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/sample-data/#noaa-ndbc-data).
```

> 2.  Uses a Flux script notebook cell to normalizes degree-based wind directions
>     to cardinal directions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  Uses a Flux script notebook cell to normalize degree-based wind directions
    to cardinal directions.
```

> 3.  Writes normalized data to a bucket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  Writes normalized data to a bucket.
```

{{< cloud-only >}}  
{{% cloud %}}  
**Note**: Using sample data counts towards your total InfluxDB Cloud usage.
{{% /cloud %}}  
{{< /cloud-only >}}

## Normalize data with a notebook
1.  [Create a new notebook](/influxdb/v2.1/notebooks/create-notebook/).
2.  In the **Build a Query** cell:

>     1.  In the **FROM** column under **{{% caps %}}Sample{{% /caps %%}},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1.  In the **FROM** column under {{% caps %}}Sample{{% /caps %}},
```

>         select **NOAA National Buoy Data**.

Reviewer: Do folks need to do something before they can see SAMPLE/ select NOAA...data? (I don't see in Cloud)

Author: Nope, this now exists natively in the FROM column (I thought that was pretty cool, BUT, it has to download the data every time, so it can be a little slow.

    2.  In the next **FILTER** column, select **_measurement** from the dropdown
        and select the **ndbc** measurement in the list of measurements.

>     3.  In the next **FILTER** column, select **_field** from the dropdown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3.  In the next **FILTER** column, select **_field** from the drop-down list,
```

    import "array"

    cardinalDir = (d) => {
        _cardinal = if d >= 348.7 or d < 11.25 then "N"
        else if d >= 11.25 and d < 33.75 then "NNE"
        else if d >= 33.75 and d < 56.25 then "NE"
        else if d >= 56.25 and d < 78.75 then "ENE"
        else if d >= 78.75 and d < 101.25 then "E"
        else if d >= 101.25 and d < 123.75 then "ESE"
        else if d >= 123.75 and d < 146.25 then "SE"
        else if d >= 146.25 and d < 168.75 then "SSE"
        else if d >= 168.75 and d < 191.25 then "S"
        else if d >= 191.25 and d < 213.75 then "SSW"
        else if d >= 213.75 and d < 236.25 then "SW"
        else if d >= 236.25 and d < 258.75 then "WSW"
        else if d >= 258.75 and d < 281.25 then "W"
        else if d >= 281.25 and d < 303.75 then "WNW"
        else if d >= 303.75 and d < 326.25 then "NW"
        else if d >= 326.25 and d < 348.75 then "NNW"
        else ""

        return _cardinal
    }

    __PREVIOUS_RESULT__
        |> map(fn: (r) => ({r with
            _field: "wind_dir_cardinal",
            _value: cardinalDir(d: r._value),
        }))
    ```

5.  Click {{% icon "notebook-add-cell" %}} after your **Flux Script** cell to 

>     add a new cell and select **{{% caps %}}Output to Bucket{{% /caps %}}**.

Reviewer: Output to bucket is no longer an option--how to add output to Flux script

Author: Ok, another difference between oss and cloud. I'll fix it.

6.  Select your **noaa** bucket from the **{{% icon "bucket" %}} Choose a bucket**
    dropdown menu, 
7.  _(Optional)_ Click {{% icon "notebook-add-cell" %}} and select **Note** to
    add a cell containing notes about what this notebook does. For example, the
    cell might say, "This notebook converts decimal degree wind direction values
    to cardinal directions."

> 5.  Click **Preview** in the upper left to verify that your notebook runs and
>     previews the output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: preview no longer an option

Author: A difference between oss and cloud. I'll fix it.
